# Analysing-Similarities-and-Differences-Between-Republicans-and-Democrats-Through-Word-Embeddings
The Republican and Democratic parties are deeply entrenched in US politics. They are said to stand for two opposite spectrums of the political arena, yet their differences have been debated. In 2008, Quentin Kidd published a paper analysing US parties' political platforms using the word scoring technique. His paper was written in response to the dissatisfied voters who complained about a lack of choice in US politics because of no real ideological or policy difference between the parties. He finds that, indeed, there is convincing evidence for these complaints to be true and reasonable. In contrast, a more recent study by the Pew Research Centre (2017) finds that the partisan divide between Republican and Democrats on fundamental political values is widening. This divide is said to have reached record level during the Obama presidency and is predicted to grow even larger under President Trump.   Which is it then? My aim is to contribute to this debate by analysing in more detail the differences and similarities between Democrats and Republicans through word embeddings. Indeed, what this debate is missing, in my opinion, is an analisys that goes beyond trying to classify Republican and Democrats on different political spectrums to one that looks at word word embeddings and how they appear differently in the narrative of the respective parties. Word embeddings can be powerul in capturing the context of a word in a document, with words with similar context occupying close spatial positions. As such, we can find out the context of a word such as 'immigration' in the Democratic platform and how it differs from the context in the Republican platform.   The dataset used here was made available by the Comparative Agendas Project (https://www.comparativeagendas.net) and is comprised of the Democratic and Republican party's platforms, both spanning a time frame from 1948 to 2016. The platforms are published every four years by the respective parties and outline the ideas, official principles and policy stances of the parties. Political scientists have argued that platforms serve as key resources for candidates to frame their electoral rhetoric, while at the same time also serving as "mechanisms of accountability"" - voters and party members can use the platform to hold candidates accountable to the ideas agreed upon by the party as a whole (Ballotpedia, 2016). As such, party plaftorms can be regarded as crucial corpora to analyse party similarities and differences.   I will start with a short descriptive narrative of the dataset. Then, I create a model fitting the word embeddings using GloVe and analyse word similarities using the cosine measure of similarity. I also run analogies. Finally, I end with a discussion of the ethical considerations to take into account when using word embeddings.   
